A for loop lets your program repeat some instructions a certain number of times.
It also let's those instructions use values taken from a list,
but what goes inside a for loop can actually be pretty complex,
it can even include other loops.
If a loop that runs five times is inside a loop that runs six times,
then the inner code will run five times six, equals 30 times.
So, for example, here's our familiar loop that
draws a square and here's another one that draws a smaller square.
It's exactly the same except the turtle goes forward ten pixels each time instead of 100.
Now, I can take this loop and put it inside the other one.
All I have to do is indent it like this.
This is called a nested loop.
We'd say that this loop is nested inside this loop.
So if we run this code,
it draws one side of the big square then it enters
the nested loop and draws all four sides of the smaller square.
Then it goes back to the top of the big loop and draws the next big side.
Then it goes into the nested loop and draws
another small square and so on until it's all done.
All in all, we ran this main loop
four times and we ran this nested loop four times for each time the main loop ran.
So, that's four times four or 16 times in total.
Okay. So, that's the idea of a nested loop.
Let's look at a little more of an interesting example.
Here is another example of a nested loop.
This code is going to draw a chain made of hexagons like this.
First, we say there will be eight links in the chain and six sides on a hexagon.
So, we set up some variables with the list of eight and the list of six.
We'll loop over these variables with an outer loop that runs once for
each link in the chain and an inner loop that runs once for each side of those links.
So for link in links,
we draw one hexagon then scoot over to the next link which we do
by picking the pen up moving forward and putting the pen back down again.
To draw one hexagon,
we do the inner loop.
For side insides, in other words for each of the six sides,
we go forward by 10 and right by 60.
So, this inner loop makes
one hexagon and the rest of this code inside the outer loop moves
from one link to the next.
All in all, this code draws this whole chain.
Now you can modify this code to draw a different pattern.
Make whatever pattern you like. Here's an example.